Number of deaths: 2,596,993
Death rate: 821.5 deaths per 100,000 population
Life expectancy: 78.8 years
Infant Mortality rate: 5.96 deaths per 1,000 live births
Number of deaths for leading causes of death:
Heart disease: 611,105
Cancer: 584,881
Chronic lower respiratory diseases: 149,205
Accidents (unintentional injuries): 130,557
Stroke (cerebrovascular diseases): 128,978
Alzheimer's disease: 84,767
Diabetes: 75,578
Influenza and Pneumonia: 56,979
Nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, and nephrosis: 47,112
Intentional self-harm (suicide): 41,149


In terms of number of deaths, 28 million (about three quarters) of the 38 million of global NCD deaths in 2012 occurred in low- and middle-income countries.

In high-income countries, 7 in every 10 deaths are among people aged 70 years and older. People predominantly die of chronic diseases: cardiovascular diseases, cancers, dementia, chronic obstructive lung disease or diabetes. Lower respiratory infections remain the only leading infectious cause of death. Only 1 in every 100 deaths is among children under 15 years.

In low-income countries, nearly 4 in every 10 deaths are among children under 15 years, and only 2 in every 10 deaths are among people aged 70 years and older. People predominantly die of infectious diseases: lower respiratory infections, HIV/AIDS, diarrhoeal diseases, malaria and tuberculosis collectively account for almost one third of all deaths in these countries. Complications of childbirth due to prematurity, and birth asphyxia and birth trauma are among the leading causes of death, claiming the lives of many newborns and infants.

Changes in the greenhouse gas concentrations and other drivers alter the global climate and bring about myriad human health consequences. Environmental consequences of climate change, such as extreme heat waves, rising sea-levels, changes in precipitation resulting in flooding and droughts, intense hurricanes, and degraded air quality, affect directly and indirectly the physical, social, and psychological health of humans.  For instance, changes in precipitation are creating changes in the availability and quantity of water, as well as resulting in extreme weather events such as intense hurricanes and flooding.  Climate change can be a driver of disease migration, as well as exacerbate health effects resulting from the release of toxic air pollutants in vulnerable populations such as children, the elderly, and those with asthma or cardiovascular disease.

A 17-year-old boy died after reportedly playing an online computer game for 22 days straight. The young man had broken his leg and was bored at home, using video games to pass the time. He only stopped playing Defence of the Ancients when he had to sleep and eat. According to investigators, the teen spent more than 2,000 hours playing the game in the past year and a half. On August 30, the boy's parents no longer heard their son playing video games in his room. They rushed him to the hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival. Doctors say that Rustam may have died from second class syndrome, thrombosis. This occurs when people stay still for a long period of time without moving around to keep blood flowing.

The blue screen of death.
(26 February 2007, California) "Driving is not a time to be practicing your multitasking skills," remarked CHP spokesman Tom Marshall. Oscar, 29, had been driving on Highway 99 near Yuba City when his Honda Accord crossed into oncoming traffic and collided with a Hummer. California Highway Patrol officers found Oscar's laptop still running, and plugged into the car's cigarette lighter.

A 30 year old Polish man had been drinking with friends when it was suggested they strip naked and play some "men's games". Initially they hit each other over the head with frozen turnips, but then one man upped the ante by seizing a chainsaw and cutting off the end of his foot. Not to be outdone, Azninski grabbed the saw and, shouting "Watch this then," he swung at his own head and chopped it off.
